# [FPP](https://github.com/nasa/fpp) + [Proteus](https://github.com/csun-tavlab/proteus) Compiler

## Project Overview

This project integrates FPP (F Prime Prime) and Proteus into a unified compiler. FPP is a modeling language designed specifically for the F Prime flight software framework, while Proteus is a programming language tailored for authoring actor-based hierarchical state machines.

## Key Features

The compiler is comprised of several core components that process and analyze the input code:

- **Tokenizer**: Extracts tokens from the source code of FPP and Proteus files. This is the first step in the parsing process where the raw code is converted into a set of tokens that are easier to analyze in subsequent stages.
- **Parser**: Analyzes the tokens generated by the tokenizer to build a more structured representation of the code. This component checks for syntactic correctness and adds them to its designated place FPP in FPP & Proteus with Proteus.
- **Code Generator** (if applicable): This process converts the raw code tokens parsed from FPP and Proteus languages. It identifies and categorizes each token whether it's a keyword, identifier, symbol, or operator and converts them into executable code. This functionality ensures that the code adheres to the specific syntax and operational requirements of FPP and Proteus environments.

## How It Works

### Tokenization

The tokenizer reads through the FPP and Proteus files to identify and categorize small pieces of code into recognized tokens. These tokens could represent keywords, symbols, identifiers, or operators specific to FPP and Proteus.

### Parsing

Following tokenization, the parser takes these tokens and places them into their represented languages. Such as expressions, statements, or declarations. This structure helps in understanding the program's syntax and organization.

### Code Generation

Following the parsing phase, the Code Generation process initiates. It takes the parsed tokens and accurately categorizes each one according to its respective language construct in FPP and Proteus. Subsequently, it converts these tokens into executable code, ensuring to follow the syntax and operational standards required by our target languages, FPP and Proteus.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following installed:
- **Java Development Kit (JDK)**: Eclipse Adoptium Temurin JDK versions 8, 11, or 17 are recommended. [Download JDK](https://adoptium.net/).
- **SBT (Simple Build Tool)**:
Essential for building Scala projects. Follow the instructions below to install SBT.


### Installing SBT

SBT (Simple Build Tool) is essential for building Scala projects. Follow the steps below to install SBT on your system:

#### General Installation with Coursier

1. **Install Scala and SBT using Coursier**:
   - Follow the installation guide on the [Coursier install page](https://get-coursier.io/docs/cli-installation).
   - Run the following command to set up your environment:
     ```bash
     cs setup
     sbt --script-version
     ```
   - This setup will install the latest stable version of SBT.

#### Platform-Specific Installation

- **macOS**:
  - Use Homebrew:
    ```bash
    brew install sbt
    ```

- **Windows and Linux**:
  - Use SDKMAN!:
    ```bash
    sdk install sbt
    ```

### Using SBT Shell

1. **Start SBT Shell**:
   Navigate to your project directory and run:
   ```bash
   sbt
2. **Compile Your Project**:
   Inside the sbt shell, type: 
   ```
   compile
     ```
3. **Run Your Project**: 
Inside the sbt shell, type: 
   ```
   run
     ```
4. **Exit SBT SHELL**:
Type `exit` or use `Ctrl+D` (Unix) or `Ctrl+Z` (Windows) to leave the sbt shell.


## Getting Started

To use this compiler, follow these simple steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   After having SBT installed; Begin by cloning the repository to your local machine. This will create a copy of the repository directory and all its files.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AlbertoSantana0/ProteusFPP.git
      ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**:
Change into the project directory that was created when you cloned the repository.
   ```bash
   cd fpp-proteus-compiler

3. **Running the Project**:
Once you have the project setup on your local machine, you can run it using SBT:

Launch the SBT shell. This will load the project's build configuration and dependencies.

   ```bash
   sbt "run <your-file-path/testInputV2.txt>"
```

- This command starts the SBT shell, which provides a command prompt with tab completion and history.

4. Select `[1]` to run the program

